so yeah that's really cool i just like
checked out your youtube channel for the
first time it seems really dope
thank you so tell me a little bit uh
what do you
what do you want to talk about or i
understand you have some questions about
bipolar disorder
yeah that i have two main things i want
to talk about
one about bipolar disorder and like i
had a few questions about that
i've done i haven't been really educated
on that stuff so i want to
know more about it and the second topic
is actually something that i can't find
on the internet
okay it's it's have you heard on child
on child abuse
child on child abuse yes no
it's when a child abuses another child
instead of an
adult okay so i had some questions about
that topic as well sure
so fire away okay so
i recently got diagnosed with bipolar
disorder or actually i got diagnosed
twice
one at the urgent care and one
by my like psychiatrist that i normally
go to
okay and i was curious if it's something
that's genetic or if it's
like caused by some incident or
something
because like i haven't been showing
symptoms until like
now okay that's and um do you mind if i
ask the ballpark of your age oh i'm
i'm 21. okay all right
yeah that's an excellent question man
oreo these are fantastic i love
that that we're asking so here's how i
think about mental illness
so i think about mental illness as an
intersection between genetics and
environment
so is there a genetic component to
bipolar disorder
absolutely but does it mean that you're
destined to get it or is it all genetics
usually not so i'll give you just one
example
so people who have parents who are
schizophrenic
may develop schizophrenia so there's
some amount of
like possible inheritance of
schizophrenia i don't remember exactly
what the number is
i'd ballpark around 30 or 40 percent
and then people who have a history of
schizophrenia
a family history of schizophrenia who
use marijuana
especially at a young age are far more
likely to be diagnosed
with schizophrenia now the interesting
thing there is like what is the
influence of marijuana does it cause the
schizophrenia i don't
think so um the best hypothesis that i
believe in is that it unmasks what may
have taken longer to occur
but you know it's unclear but we do know
that marijuana plus family history
is worse than family history alone and
we also know that early onset of
marijuana use
probably leads to a greater risk of
manifesting symptoms of schizophrenia
so how does that work i mean my sense is
that we each have a genetic
predisposition
and then based on certain environmental
factors like stressors
that genetic predisposition can kind of
like
activate or you're like you're halfway
so in this in cancer there's something
called the two-hit hypothesis
which which hypothesizes that in order
to get cancer you need
more than one kind of like genetic
mutation in your cell
you need to have one mutation and then
you need to have a second mutation
and those mutations together will cause
cancer
so i think that most people may have
some predisposition
or a high risk to develop a mental
illness
and then when some circumstances happen
so for bipolar
disorder for example things like
substance use or really just not
sleeping
well for a couple of weeks or even a few
days pulling a few all-nighters
can really result in the manifestation
of bipolar disorder
does that answer your question or was it
too good yeah yeah no that was really
that was really in-depth and yeah yeah
that made sense um
i i remember talking to my doctor
because i didn't want to take medication
yep and he um she said that
i had to because like if i don't sleep
then that causes like my mania even more
yeah i didn't see that as a big thing
because like all teenagers are all like
young adults sleep late i thought that
was like a normal thing it is a normal
thing
so this is it's a great point right so
here's the the thing right so this is
what i mean about the intersection
about an environmental factor and a
genetic factor
so all teenagers have screwed up sleep
schedules
the difference is that most teenagers
don't have that genetic risk
which is why they can have the
environmental influence and be
completely fine
but when you combine that environmental
influence with the genetic risk
that's when you get an illness
so i'll give you just one last example
so let's think about alcohol
right so alcohol has also gets
inherited to a certain degree so if you
have parents that are alcoholics you're
more likely to be an alcoholic
and you know people who are 21
drink a lot and not all of them become
alcoholics why
so when you have an alcoholic a strong
history of alcoholism in your family and
you start drinking a lot when you're 21
you're much more likely to become
alcoholic than someone who doesn't have
a family history of alcoholism
the other interesting thing that's also
true is that if you have a strong family
history of alcoholism and you don't
drink it all
then do you become an alcoholic
what do you think wait sorry can you say
that again i kind of felt it yeah
so if if you have a family history of
alcoholism
and you don't drink it all do you become
an alcoholic
no you become an alcoholic yeah right so
when it comes to bipolar
uh people who have a diagnosis of
bipolar disorder
if you can control your sleep then the
disease for the most part
may actually like kind of go away
because there are certain risk factors
that trigger
the disease
and um when you're diagnosed does that
usually mean for
certain or is that like because i've
been diagnosed with
so many different things and i'm not
sure like what
what i have or if like if i even have
bipolar
do you mind if i ask are you diagnosed
by polar one or bipolar ii
um did they tell you that but
yeah they said probably one but i'm not
even sure what the difference is between
one
two and cyclothymia i think that's all
okay
we'll talk about that okay so here's the
first thing
so i once had a one of my very wise
mentors
once told me that if someone has three
psychiatric diagnoses they're all wrong
okay so so what we do is psychiatrists
sometimes is we tend to like label
people
and then we don't really take label
people we don't take labels off
we tend to just slap people with more
diagnoses they're like oh you're bipolar
and you have adhd
and you have anxiety i don't think so
and so that goes to the nature of
psychiatric diagnosis which is that
it's kind of bad so like
we don't have a test right so if you
think about like cancer
or like covid we have tests that you can
objectively verify
whether this person has this illness or
not
but i can't do a blood test i can't do
an x-ray
i can't do any of that stuff to tell you
definitively that you have bipolar
disorder
so psychiatric diagnosis is one of
observation
and guesswork and so what we do
generally speaking with in psychiatric
diagnoses is that we have some criteria
and if people check those boxes they're
more
likely to have the illness but there are
some people who will check the boxes
and not have the illness like that's
possible too because it's just checking
boxes right it's like
so for depression for example changes in
sleep
um so being sad
changes in sleep feeling guilty
having changes in your energy being
either psycho
motorically agitated or depressed which
means like
you kind of like her like this or you're
like fidgety
um you know changes in concentration
suicidal thinking and the more of those
you have the more likely you are to be
depressed but
you can be sad and suicidal and actually
not have clinical depression
it's possible so it doesn't mean that
the diagnoses are right
it's really an issue in medicine what we
call clinical judgment
as opposed to objective testing
and sometimes our judgment is wrong
because like you know we don't have
perfect information
because the information that we rely on
is like what you tell us
or what your family members tell us
and that could be biased right so not
only do we have a list of check boxes
but then like you know we don't have
perfect information
so sometimes we're wrong
do you feel like your psychiatrist
understands you as a person
yes i like my psychiatrist just a lot
then i would trust what they had to say
yeah you know somebody misdiagnosed me
with other things
before so like sometimes well it's also
because i
haven't been that honest sometimes
because i wasn't very comfortable
with soda
that probably makes sense but like i
know this sounds bizarre but this
the sign of a good psychiatrist is one
who changes your diagnosis
that tells me that your psychiatrist is
being thoughtful
and is willing to accept that they were
wrong about something
and they're actively interpreting new
information
and reformulating you as a person which
is actually good
like that makes me confident in your
psychiatrist yeah i took a while for
that because like i've had a lot of
experiences with other psychiatrists
when i was like
because i i've been getting looking for
help since or getting therapy and like
and stuff since i was like 16 but
i've keep getting my case closed and
just being sent to the mental hospital
and like they didn't diagnose me and
they just give me medication
and make me take it and then yeah it was
just it was just crazy
so like i don't know if
i did anything wrong or if it was a
system that was wrong
or if i said something wrong but it's
just it was crazy
why do you assume that something wrong
happened
maybe i i said something that or i
over exaggerated my situation like
and it wasn't as bad as it was maybe but
why do you assume that you over
exaggerated why do you assume i mean the
system's not great
but yeah like sometimes i feel like i
just say things
because i want attention okay i
exaggerated just a little bit
because i want someone to like pay
attention to me
because i'm lonely or something
yep yeah i think that's very insightful
of
you to realize right most people go
their entire life without
without ever realizing that [ __ ]
and they're like 60 and cause problems
with their kids and
grandkids and become a strange because
they never recognize that there are
parts of themselves
that do things that may not be healthy
so i still think it's great that you
recognize that maybe you are doing that
and also maybe you weren't exaggerating
yeah i can't tell because like at the
time it doesn't feel like
it is but when i look back it's like oh
my god i was so
like dramatic yeah so
that sometimes happens with people who
are bipolar
is the way that you think changes
right so like you we have this
instrument of mind with which we
judge the world and part of the problem
especially with mania is that the
instrument that
we use to judge whether saying something
is okay or doing something is okay
changes
and looking back on it it seems like
kind of
nuts to other people but to us it feels
completely normal
in fact we feel very confident
yeah and that that the rest of the world
is really really wrong
yeah i feel like sometimes the rest of
the world like doesn't understand and
they don't
like i'm at a whole new level or
something yeah that sounds like my
bullet disorder
yeah cause um i don't i don't know if
you you don't own or you don't like
manage your twitter right but i was
actually spamming you guys on twitter
because i was just like oh my god like
maybe if i keep messaging this person
like i'll have like
an interview or something so i kind of
feel bad about that
i don't i don't know most of i don't
even know how to use twitter
oh but i you know
i think it's okay i apologize to whoever
is managing
yeah they must have gotten a lot of
notifications just like
on on their behalf i forgive you
thank you and and i i at the same time i
don't want to tell people that it's okay
to hammer
yeah i don't because i i don't i don't
want them to have to do
i don't want that to happen so i i don't
like i kind of feel guilty that
that actually is why i have this
interview
with you i i don't honestly honestly
oreo i don't know how any of this [ __ ]
works
i just people people tell me to show up
and then i don't know
and then so i'm glad you're here though
because i think this is these are
excellent questions
thank you um so your question was
you know are do people get psychiatric
diagnosis wrong and
i would say i certainly hope so
i think that we i certainly hope that
most
psychiatrists out there don't label
someone with one thing and then just
assume that they're right
and is it possible to have like other
symptoms
to other disorders that like while
you're like manic
because like i was strangely like really
i thought i was i was like confident i
had ocd
sure for some reason because like i had
to do things a certain way and like
i had to like say things like a certain
amount of times and do things a certain
amount of times
in order for it to be valid
yeah that was really weird yeah so i
think that too is like so mania will
uncover
other things which like your normal mind
is able to manage
but when your mind becomes manic like
you just can't manage it the way like it
sort of becomes like
you know things and and yeah so i really
think about mania as like
turning the dial up to 100 and all kinds
of stuff
so it made turn up the dial in to 100 in
terms of like ocd symptoms
it can also turn the dial up to 100 in
terms of
energy and creativity so
the interesting thing is that if you
look at even harvard college has a
higher
incidence of bipolar disorder than the
rest of the united states
and and the reason is because people who
are a little bit bipolar
can get away with only sleeping two to
four hours a night
and have lots of energy to study like
not a joke
no that's like really relatable actually
how so
i kind of now that i'm like evened out
and like calm i kind of miss being manic
because i was so productive and like
every idea that i had was like
amazing and ideas kept flowing and
that's usually when my channel started
growing as well as manic it's because i
posted a lot of videos a lot of content
on like popular things
and i didn't have any doubts yeah so
i've worked with
very successful artists
who have sometimes asked me
how can i use my bipolar disorder to
create more
and they've come to me and they've said
like hey i want to stop taking
medications for a certain amount of time
and i want to create
and then can you put me back on them
after a month because i'm not feeling my
creative energy do you ever think about
that
yeah that's why i actually wanted to
stop taking my medications because it
made me feel sleepy
but my doctor was like no yeah
and how do you feel about that um i
think
it makes sense because i even though i
felt really good
and i i was at the best state of mind in
my
or that's what i thought like other
people were having a hard time like my
parents like they were really worried
about me because
for some reason i had this strange
obsession with america's got talent
comedy and um howie mandel
and i was like i have to go to america's
got talent audition for comedy
specifically
and meet howie mandel and touch his bald
head
specifically i don't know why yeah that
certainly
does sound i mean so i understand you
already have a diagnosis and just to be
clear
clear you know so it's good that you're
in treatment because otherwise it would
terrify me
because i don't diagnose people over the
internet but this really does sound to
me like
mania like it sounds like that's an
appropriate diagnosis
um one question so one reason that
bipolar disorder gets misdiagnosed a lot
is if people are using substances so i
i would normally ask you do you use
substances but instead what i'm going to
ask you is
does your psychiatrist know truthfully
whether you use substances or not
we don't need to know what they need to
know okay
another thing is because i was
misdiagnosed with just depression
i was taking like the wrong medication
that actually made my mania even more
like
yeah so yeah unfortunately that is very
common
so the problem is that we can't diagnose
someone with bipolar so let's just talk
about depression and bipolar for a
second
people who are bipolar have periods of
depression and periods of mania
people who are depressed or may have
major depression
only have depression right does that
make sense
yeah so now like put yourself in the
shoes of a psychiatrist let's say
an 18 year old girl comes in and she is
depressed
does she have bipolar or is she does she
have depression
i guess we don't know exactly and that's
hard
yeah right so like we just don't feel
bad for my psychiatrist
i don't know i know it's their job but
it must be really difficult
it's a hard job it sounds like it is but
it's
worth it every every cent like i mean
it's worth it dude
because here's the thing like oreo
helping people like you is absolutely
worth it i don't want my job to be easy
i want you to get better i want you to
continue to create music
i want you to like live a happy and
fulfilling life where you take that
little bit of crazy deep inside you and
turn it into music which touches people
in a way that a completely sane person
cannot
so this is the other crazy thing is like
why does bipolar disorder exist
right so like why does it happen and i
i'm telling you that i think that some
of the most beautiful things that i've
seen
in terms of artistic creation happen
from people who
are on that bipolar spectrum in some way
shape or form doesn't mean that they're
actually man because i think when you're
fully manic
your mind is so like extreme that like
other people can't appreciate it
yeah but you're channeling like
something really powerful and when you
can get that under
control and like focus it on artistic
creation i genuinely think it's more
beautiful than what the average person
can make
which is
i realized i said something that is hard
to respond to
no it's just yeah i don't know if i
should take that as a compliment
or yeah like yeah
i i feel flattered okay
i mean i think it's just the truth of
your situation right it's it's
authentically like
it doesn't mean i mean on one hand
you're ill but i don't think it's all
bad
i do think that way too yeah like i
don't think it's something that people
should want
but at the same time if you have it like
i guess appreciate it
yeah yeah and i think keep it under
control because like i mean if you're
truly manic like
you're gonna make music and it's gonna
be such a mess
yeah dude i made him i made a song that
was called happy and then i just slammed
my keyboard like three times and that
was
the song it's because i'm so happy you
can't even
comprehend and they don't comprehend
right so that's actually not good music
even though in the mind of someone who's
manic it feels like good music
i thought everything was good yeah
so highly elevated mood is what mania
usually entails
like everything's perfect um
yeah i mean and uh other questions
and we're kind of bouncing around but i
have some for you but i want to make
sure we get
no i i'm pretty i got through everything
i wrote up a little doc just in case i
get
nervous and forget everything are you
feeling nervous
um at first i'm like
at first i was like really excited and
then all of a sudden i just got this
surge of nervousness you know the eminem
song like
palm sweaty knees weak mom's spaghetti
yeah that's how i feel
yeah that's just a sympathetic nervous
response that's adrenaline
yeah i feel like so much energy
okay so do you wanna should we just keep
talking through it or do you wanna like
meditate for a second or what do you
wanna do
um i i actually like talking so
okay i want to keep talking so do you
want to tell me about child on child
abuse then
uh yeah um recently or
it's gotten a lot better but i've been
having a lot of flashbacks about my
childhood
and um i know i just
want to talk more and learn more about
this because i can't find a lot of
resources
okay and i i feel like it's more common
than it is
like than i think it is okay yeah
and what are we talking about help me
understand what happened oh yeah
um so basically
when i was like nine or eight eight or
nine i moved to georgia
and i like lost all my friends because i
moved to a different state
and i met this girl who
said she'd be my friend but only if i do
certain things with her
and it was it was like a relationship
that i didn't really
want i guess okay
and she made me like there were times
where i was consensual but at the same
time it's like
aren't kids like not able to give
consent
yeah so when you say wanted to do things
do you mean like
intimate things yeah like really
inappropriate things like things like
normal kids don't do
okay and you were eight or nine and how
old was the other girl
um she was one year older okay so that's
kind of [ __ ] up
oh i've only told my close friends and
my family and they told me that
it was pretty normal and i didn't feel
that way about it
they said a lot of kids like play doctor
and stuff
but it didn't feel it felt like more
than that
okay so now i'm a little bit confused
because what you were describing to me
and because i when i said that's kind of
[ __ ] up i was expecting you to say
yeah but you seemed confused by my
answer
yeah because no one's really told me
that
or maybe a few of my friends but
everyone else is like yeah
that same stuff happened to me and they
kind of just
do you tell them what actually happened
to you
yeah in detail actually
not in detail because it's kind of
embarrassing for me for some reason
but i just say like they made me
uncomfortable
so i'm guessing what they think is
normal is not what actually happened to
you
but they're filling in so when you speak
oreo you're vague oh sorry
no no it's not it's i'm not asking you
to applaud i'm pointing it out to you
okay okay so like for example you said
there was a nine-year-old girl and she
said she would be my friend but only if
i do certain things
and i don't know if that means
so my wife used to play a game with her
sister called princess
and my wife was the older sister so she
would be the princess
and then her younger sister would be the
servant so she would just like run
around and like
get her candy and like that was the game
that they played right so
so i i don't know and i don't think i
mean i'm not trying to say that that was
anything inappropriate i think it's just
you know older sister being an older
sister but like when you say that
she said you know you can't be my friend
unless you do certain things like
i don't know if that means wear a
certain piece of clothing
or carry around her book bag or do her
homework for her
or something that's like it was like
sexual activity
yeah so that's really bizarre for eight
and nine-year-olds to engage in
so generally speaking if you take an
average nine-year-old off the street
they don't really engage in too much
sexual activity
usually engaging in sexual activity as a
nine-year-old or ten-year-old
is like the you know that sh that's a
red flag as a
is a treater for sexual abuse
because how does a nine-year-old learn
how to be sexual
through other people i guess absolutely
right that's where our kids learn
like so you know my kids want to be
princess
queen elsa because they watch frozen all
the time and that's what they run around
and that's what they pretend to be
and so what kids tend to pretend to be
is like
what they see
i had my kid recently put her sheepy in
timeout
and where did she learn to put her
stuffed animals in timeout it's because
she gets put in timeout
when she spent it so it sounds to me
like this person
you know i that's a red flag in my mind
that this person
themselves was abused
yeah i think so too but going back to
what we were talking about so i think
when people say they you know it's
normal for kids to play doctor it's also
i mean i agree it's normal for kids to
play doctor
but it sounds like what happened between
you and this girl was more than playing
doctor and if you're being vague
then what they're gonna assume is their
experience as a kid
so do you know like what words you use
to describe this when you're explaining
it to other people
probably the same thing i i'm not i
don't remember
exactly but the same way i was pretty
vague yeah yeah
right so it's like i don't know what
that means
yeah i mean so oh sorry i was just gonna
say like so in our case we have an
advantage because at the beginning of
the conversation you said
i tried to google child on child abuse
and i didn't see anything
so that sets a tone for all of the vague
stuff you say afterward right does that
make sense
so we sort of assume that think
something here is not kosher but unless
you say that
to the other people they're going to
interpret it like
in a non-threatening kind of way
do you think um yeah go ahead sorry no
it's just i've told my parents
specifically and they thought it was my
mom didn't think it was
normal but my dad was like oh that's
just what kids do you know and i was
just like
really and
yeah i think he it's also because she's
a really
close like her dad is a close friend of
my dad's
and she he didn't want anything to
happen
because i was like angry to the point
where i actually was thinking about
taking this to court
because i felt like i felt like i lost
something like in my childhood like
my innocence you know yeah
how do you feel right now saying that um
just
a little angry but at the same time i
i feel like i shouldn't feel angry
because
i don't know i i want to blame that
other person
but like i can't because she probably
went through
something too and she didn't know what
she was doing
what's wrong like she didn't know that
what she was doing was probably wrong
yeah that doesn't mean you can't blame
her
right so so like this is a weird thing
okay oreo
but like let's say that so i've worked
with you know patients who have
had suffered from abuse by their parents
and they also hope
as part of that healing process they
learn about their parents and sometimes
it involves family therapy and they
learn that
you know part of the reason why their
parents were abusive was because they in
turn were abused
and interestingly enough usually like
the abuse actually gets
better with each generation like their
parents had it way worse
than they treated their kid and so it's
it's an interesting
kind of tightrope to walk to say
i understand that you had some things in
your past which like pushed you in a
certain direction
and also like you could have not done
that
and you didn't but
i feel like she didn't understand like
what it meant
in a way sure i i don't think she did
but that doesn't mean that you can't be
angry at her
oh right so like like let me just say
like let's say that two kids are playing
and then they like
like they're gonna play mermaids
and then they decide to go into a pool
of water and then like
you know like or they fight or let's say
they fight
and then you know they don't they don't
recognize that they're fighting because
they're playing teenage mutant ninja
turtles so they like
grab two sticks and they start hitting
each other and one of them smacks the
other one across the face
because that's what they do in teenage
they're like playing martial arts
and even though they didn't intend to
hurt that doesn't change the fact that
the person who got smacked across the
face with a stick
is genuinely hurt and if they lose a
tooth
then like that hurt stays with them
even if the child didn't know what
happened
and what i'm sensing from you is that
like you lost something
and even if she didn't mean it it
doesn't mean that you didn't lose
something
and it feels okay to be to be angry that
you lost something that you shouldn't
have
feels unfair
unjust you may also be angry with your
parents
are you yeah
not my mom but more my dad because my
mom was really understanding and
she she actually apologized because she
said she didn't she thought there was
nothing
that could possibly go wrong with two
kids you know
and yeah i'm just more angry at my dad i
guess
yeah what are you angry at him for
for not understanding
yeah and
to defend someone that hurt me
yeah like i feel like he should
take my side like no matter what because
i'm his daughter
but but another thing is like i keep
comfort like
having like conflicting conflicting
thoughts because like my dad's been
through a lot
my dad's actually handicapped and he's
um he's been in the hospital for 19
years so i could understand why he's
like
really he like i don't know i feel like
my problems are like less
in a sense so maybe that's why he
can understand i don't know
can i think for a second yeah
takes a lot of courage to say this stuff
do you feel courageous not really
i just feel like i'm stating what
happened
like when i think of courageous i think
of like superheroes saving like
a cat from a like getting run over by a
truck
i can understand that and when i think
about some of the most courageous people
in the history of humanity
some of them just said what happened
right yeah so it's interesting
[Laughter]
yeah that's true it's interesting how
sometimes we can't see ourselves
the way that we deserve to be seen
maybe you should reevaluate your
diagnosis of yourself
and how awesome you are
so
oreo we have a couple of different
directions to go
um since you are thankfully in treatment
do you talk to your psychiatrist about
this stuff by the way
i'm not my psychiatrist but i'm thinking
of telling my therapist because my
i try to talk to my psychiatrist and
she's like you should talk to this
with your therapist okay so it sounds
like your psychiatrist mostly manages
your medication
yeah okay so i would highly recommend
that
so we have a couple of options so what
i'd like to do is actually teach you
something that's a little bit more
eastern because i'm noticing that your
mind is doing a couple of things
and i'd like to teach you maybe
something that's not so much talking
about
this particular thing but
you seem conflicted to me
about the way that you feel what do you
think
yeah i can see that it's very conflicted
do you feel conflicted
so what i'd like to help you do is maybe
get to some sense of peace
over that conflict and this has really
nothing to do with
what happened to you in a sense it all
has to do with how does a human being
who feels conflicted about something
come to peace with their inner conflict
or what we can do is talk more
about the actual child on child abuse
and your
your your feelings and whether they're
justified and explore those
but i think a therapist can do that
what what do you think i mean do you
wanna do you wanna i actually
do have one more thing i want to mention
because i have another incident
when i was um around 12 or 13 when i was
at korea
by another family member and
that also felt similar in a sense
because
they were my family member and i didn't
i couldn't it's just conflicting because
i couldn't tell if they were dude like
they had ill intent and they were
doing something wrong or if they were
genuinely like
just trying to help me i guess
oh sorry i was vague again good you
noticed
yeah um basically what happened was
while i was sleeping
um this was next to my mom and my
brother we all shared one bed
because there was only one room um my
uncle
came in and he
started to massage my leg and everyone
else was sleeping
he started massaging my leg and i
remembered like my parents telling me he
does this thing where he like massages
people because he's really good at it or
something but then
it made me really uncomfortable because
he he did it at night
and without telling me and then he
slowly like went up
and started touching me in places where
like made me feel really uncomfortable
yeah that doesn't sound kosher to me
yeah
but again my dad comes in place here
because my dad was like oh no he's just
massaging you like that's like
a thing he does because he's really good
at it or something and i was just like
but
i mean it didn't has he ever massaged
your dad's dick
no i don't think so but my mom told me
she had a similar experience
with me like with not with me but like
that with what happened to me the guy
sounds like he's
he's holding back and should be giving
the same service to his male clients too
like i mean i don't mean to be an
[ __ ] but like that doesn't sound like
a massage to me
right so i think that's where once again
maybe
so we're i'm noticing a couple of
disturbing patterns
one is so one is it could be vague right
so it could be the vagueness and because
like maybe he's massaged your dad's
upper thigh but never like
crossed the barrier from thigh to like
scrotum like that's
maybe right and it sounds like he really
did touch you in places that were
inappropriate and i think generally
speaking i would trust your instinct
about that
and it also sounds like it happened to
your mom
and you know so like i would trust your
instinct about that like i forget the
exact statistics but
you know most people who molest children
or people who are like close to them in
some way
it's not like strangers off the street
it's like family members and [ __ ]
and that's really sad
and then the other thing that i'm i'm
noticing is that that like you know
i'm curious oreo how did you feel when
your dad
said he does that to everyone
i cried like really
yeah it's just really upsetting because
i don't think he
maybe it's because i was vague but i
don't think he understood like
how uncomfortable it made me feel and
how like
the boundaries he crossed and what made
it hard for you to tell your dad
i think not only because he's a dude
because that's also a bit uncomfortable
but
i feel like he's been through so much
worse
and yeah i don't know i just keep
comparing
like i don't want to make it a
competition but like
that's what we're gonna get to yeah so
we'll get to
that's sort of the eastern thing that i
feel guilty because like
everything else is in my life is like
fine like i have a great family
i have a lot of friends and i have a
great job
but it's just little things i feel like
what do you feel guilty for
guilty for not being happy
sometimes when i have like
so much privilege i feel like i know
a lot of a lot of people tell me because
i'm
asian american i have a lot of privilege
even though like i'm like what the only
minority that has like privilege because
like my family's well off and no one's
really racist against
asians or something i don't know like
like
i don't know i it's just i heard a lot
of things
yeah so i how do you feel when they say
that
i think it's so wrong
because i don't it doesn't matter if
you're like whatever
what what the color of your skin is or
what race you are i think everyone has
like their own story to tell in their
own issues but
every time that gets like put down
i kind of lose hope yep
and i can understand why it's almost
like i mean it's weird because there's
an interesting parallel there between
your dad and what people tell you which
is that you're not allowed to feel the
way that you
you do you're wrong oreo
you're mistaken that your feelings of
suffering
and hurt are incorrect
you're a bad korean girl for feeling
[Laughter]
right
i think indian people are pretty similar
there
what are you complaining about um
just i don't know i don't think
i'm complaining it's just things that
upset me in the past
i mean i was i was being uh facetious i
was playing a character
oh oh okay i think you have every right
to complain
i mean i think so like this is the
challenge right with privilege which
maybe is a conversation for a different
day but so as someone who's a clinician
it's hard for me to i mean we'll talk
so i think this all actually goes back
to the central concept which i want to
teach you about
so hold on comparison
okay but i think it's like hard because
like you know you look at things like
white male privilege
and there's certainly some data to
suggest support that right like so if
you're like a white person versus a
black person you get pulled over by a
police officer
the way that the police officer like
your odds do get influenced by your race
so that's true and at the same time 68
to 69 percent
of people who kill themselves in this
country are white men
so it's like where's the privilege
there right so like people assume and
we'll get to this
so in your case like i think you do have
advantages and you do have a lot to be
grateful for
that does not somewhere along the way
like privilege became like
about one axis and that just doesn't
make sense to me
it's like sure you have a lot of
privilege and i think you should be
grateful for that i certainly have a
hell of a lot of privilege
and i'm grateful for that and at the
same time that doesn't
invalidate the fact that it sounds like
you were sexually molested by two people
have bipolar disorder and like your
family didn't take it seriously
like the fact that you're [ __ ] korean
doesn't
change that horrible truth that you have
to deal with
and in the grand scheme of things i
don't think it makes up for it either
you know like do you have particular
advantages because you're korean like
absolutely sure
should you be grateful for those
absolutely sure should you help other
people who don't have those kinds of
advantages
absolutely sure but it doesn't mean that
you don't get to suffer too
right your privilege does not give
other people the license to invalidate
who you are as a person which is i think
one of the saddest things that's
happened to you
like the really crushing thing if i can
just go there for a second
what happened to you is bad but what
really i think is the loss of innocence
is not what happened to you it's the way
that your dad responded
right because like what a dad is
supposed to do in that situation is
protect his little girl
and that didn't happen and that's what
hurts
like that's what hurts me it's like i
know [ __ ] happens but like
when someone who's supposed to take care
of you doesn't take care of you and in
fact
protects your abuser that's what feels
bad to me
and i would hate myself for the rest of
my life if i ever did that to one of my
daughters
i think it's the shittiest thing you can
possibly do
anyway i'm going to need a moment
because now i have
but i didn't think i'd get emotional
because it's usually hard to crack me
i mean it's easy to crack me
thoughts questions
no everything you said made sense it's
just all coming together
like i'm really glad i brought this
topic up i was like debating because
i i guess i was kind of afraid i'd hear
the same thing
other people told me or like what my dad
told me
but i'm relieved
what are you really what's relieving to
hear
that what i went through wasn't
good but like yeah it wasn't good at all
and i don't know just but
just to hear someone that can understand
like the pain that i went through
it's just really relieving refreshing
yeah i'm i'm happy you feel that way and
it's it's interesting that you feel like
i understand your pain because i
i really don't i don't know it's just no
i i feel
like yeah yeah i mean because but i i
think that's
that's actually the amazing thing right
is that like human beings can connect
and support each other without
know without truly understanding
and and i think it's really really sad
what happened to you and i don't think
it's fair
and i do think you lost something
i do however think that you're gonna be
okay
and i do think i'm gonna be okay too
yeah i i do think that just because you
lost something
i gave this this five-minute rant before
we started talking about how instead of
you know avoiding taking damage what you
need to learn how to do is heal
because then you can take damage and
this is a great example right so i think
oreo everything that i see tells me that
you're
an intelligent capable caring
and talented young woman who has a lot
to give to the world
and most of it is positive
and i'm you know i think i'm in your
corner
um yeah that's another one of those
things that i don't know how you're
supposed to respond to
yeah thank you
okay so let's talk about you have other
thoughts questions can i
teach you something yeah teach me
something okay so i want to teach you
something called
advice so this is a sanskrit word
that means non-dual
so if we look at human beings and why
they have conflict
right so like let's take the conflict
that you have over your dad where you
want to blame him for something
because let's be fair he [ __ ] up
and and then what you but you all you
also want to do is like
kind of acknowledge that it's not
entirely his fault right so there's a
part of you that's like
damn it dad you know you did something
really bad to me and there's another
part of you that's like he's been in a
hospital for 19 years
you know he suffers a lot too it's sort
of like not
fair to blame him so there's like to
blame him
and there's like the let's feel sorry
for him and it's not his fault
right and we can see that with that
other girl that you were talking about
as well where it's like there's a part
of you that's like
i want to blame her because she hurt me
and also like she was only a young girl
too she didn't know what she was doing
and that's the conflict so sometimes in
life we have a part of us that
you know has black and a part of us that
has white so you can see this kind of
concept in the yin yang
and so what advaith means is that the
way to get to peace
is to be non-doom so to not
separate two things and choose one over
the other
because generally speaking as human
beings what we try to do
is we try to like we think about the
resolution of conflict as one winning
right and like you think through it
you're like okay i'm not going to blame
him at the end of the day and then my
mind will it be at peace
if i stop blaming my dad or it'll also
be at peace if you do blame him and then
it's like conflict complete
you with me there's like a battle and
one needs to win
so the concept of advaith is actually
that like
neither one needs to win and what you
need to learn
is how to sit with both conflicting
truths
at the same time so and it's kind of
weird but like
for you to say that my dad suffers a lot
and and maybe he deserves some amount of
forgiveness or leeway
and instead of using but you use and
so we say like oh like what he did was
really bad
but he suffers a lot too and so what but
does what the word but does
is it invalidates the first part of the
statement
like i think you're a really wonderful
person but
you know and then it's like it doesn't
doesn't matter what you said first right
and and so what i i'd like to try to
teach you how to start
to do today is to replace the word but
in your mind with and
that he suffered a lot and at the same
time
he really should have done something
differently
that and this is kind of what i was
saying about you know the kids who were
fighting that like
what that girl did to you hurt you a lot
and at the same time if you can sit with
that that that wasn't fair to you
and at the same reason she didn't know
what she was doing
which doesn't really absolve like it's
sort of like we're not gonna blame her
but we still
allow ourselves to feel hurt at the same
time
you know because maybe on some level she
did know what she was doing
right like like it sounded like she was
sociopathic and she understood that you
were lonely
and she used that loneliness against you
in a malevolent
way and i don't know where we got off
thinking that children aren't malevolent
because children are some of the biggest
[ __ ] on the planet like seriously
i'm not kidding it's not a joke it's
like they're some of the most
spiteful and hurtful people out there i
know it sounds funny
i laugh too yeah but i mean children can
be very cruel
like i remember when i was growing up
some of
the people in my school like we had a
handicapped teacher
who was in a wheelchair and like a group
of 10 year old kids like they were
[ __ ] relentless
and it's like one of the saddest things
to see like how cruel children can be
and sometimes kids are good and
sometimes kids are bad and do we give
them excuses sure
but so i i think the the goal here is to
like think about advaith which is like
how can you sit with both of these
truths at the same time
that something did happen to you that
was bad and that people hurt you
and that people who should have
protected you didn't protect you
and that pain is there like it's done
and at the same time
how can you also forgive
and how can you continue to love your
dad it sounds to me like you love your
dad
right and so how can you sit with the
feeling of like
he wasn't there for me and love him at
the same time
because those two things appear to
conflict
and what i'm what i'm sensing you in you
is that your love is trying to
overcome your anger with him
and there's a war am i pissed at dad or
do i love dad
does that make sense and who do you
think is winning the war right now
love or anger for me
love because my dad's been there for me
through like really tough times too
like he makes mistakes as well so
yeah so so that's what i sense in you
and at the same time for you to really
be at peace
so we can understand that if love wins
like that's good right
love triumphing over anger is good but i
actually don't think it's
the best i think what's the best is to
have
love in your heart and to have anger
and to acknowledge that like i do
deserve to feel this way and i can love
my dad
and and he can [ __ ] up just because i
love him doesn't mean that he can't [ __ ]
up
and when you say it like that it's like
duh but that's not how we feel
right because then when you feel angry
at your dad how do you feel about
feeling angry
what do you tell yourself you scream
okay so what do you tell yourself when
you feel angry with him
um it's kind of a read my mind question
but i'm digging for a particular answer
which
i'm gonna see if i can phrase the
questions properly but
like when you yeah so so like when you
feel angry at your dad
later on how do you feel about being
angry with him
i don't know why i feel like this is a
trick question yeah yeah it's weird i'm
asking it in a bad way so that's my
fault
so i would guess that you feel guilty
for feeling angry with him
yeah right it's like weird like you and
and like what is that guilt like what
kind of thoughts do you have
when you get like i should have known
better like he's been through a lot
and yeah right and and so what are you
doing there like i know it's kind of
that's kind of a weird question too but
what are you doing to the angry part of
you
i'm invalidating it absolutely
right so you're telling and you're in a
bizarre way that's exactly what your dad
did
right he was like oh it's not that big
of a deal
you shouldn't feel that way that's the
wrong way to feel oreo
does that make sense
and and so i think what you've got to do
is like learn how to sit with all of
those things
all at the same time and the the way to
not feel guilty is to actually like be
able to be angry with him
and is there any part of you tiny tiny
part of you that hates your dad
yeah right so so that
that deserves to be there too what do
you hate him for
for just brushing off my problems
yeah and do you think that's a
reasonable way to feel
do you love your dad how do you love and
hate him at the same time
um rather than hate i guess it's okay to
be
angry and love my dad
can you feel those at the same time
and so do you feel like yeah so so i i
think the interesting thing is that the
more you do that i suspect the less
guilty you'll start to feel
and if we really think about the guilt
the guilt is i think what
causes the most conflict
does that make sense like i think it's
the guilt that
that's you fighting against yourself
because you have the anger and the
guilt's like no oreo
wrong don't feel that way and that's the
conflict so if we want you to be at
peace we have to let you feel the love
with one hand
and let you feel the anger with the
other
what do you does that do you know how to
do that do you can you imagine how to do
that
i guess when i'm angry you just be angry
but when i feel better
feel better yeah that's i it's
interesting or your your
some of your answers are vague and the
ones that
aren't are simply beautiful because they
capture the essence of it
it's like a zen master kind of thing you
know because the zen masters are like
when you are angry be angry
and when you are done be done it's like
said
it's really like simple kind of [ __ ]
that's like super profound
yeah quotes and and i i think so right
so let yourself feel what you feel
and acknowledge that you don't have to
have one win over the other that you can
have both
that can you can say like oh i'm a good
person
and i'm a bad person
and even when it comes to something like
bipolar disorder like it sucks to have
bipolar disorder
and it's part of what makes me who i am
and some of that energy is going to help
me create or has helped
me create and even if you're not
actively manic or actively
depressed you're still going to be
creating
that bipolar is still down there
underneath the surface and it's fueling
you a little bit
and i think it's just about finding that
balance
all right i feel like i've been talking
at you for a while what do you think
i learned a lot good i'm glad
do you have that was that was kind of my
spiel
how do you feel about you know today's
conversation
it was really nice like i was i actually
had a nightmare
about how this conversation would go i
had a dream
where you were like at my house and we
were having like we were talking
and then you made me throw away
everything that i liked
you were just like you like this throw
it away it's a problem and you like
throw it you did it across the window
and then the window would break and then
everything else would break and i'm just
like no
my nintendo ds
that's scary man
for some reason i had this fear that you
would like i think i was nervous because
i thought you would jump out of the
screen and like grab my nintendo ds and
mute it out the window
yeah that sounds really scary you know
it's interesting because you know being
a streamer i understand that sometimes
streamers find their ways into people's
dreams
but this is not what i expect
the representation of dr k in in
dreams is is someone who throws away
things
what i expect is that you know when dr k
finds his way into a young woman's
dreams that that
that means something else but
[Laughter]
but yeah i mean i'm glad that it sounds
like that's not what we're doing here
today
so yeah i mean it's sound
you know good i'm i'm glad that i didn't
make you throw out your nintendo ds
yes i'm very glad to what do you play on
ds
by the way pokemon and chrono trigger
really wow chrono trigger is amazing
oh i just i played it for the first time
so like i'm
like halfway finished so it's really
good i love it so much yeah
it's like one of these boomer games that
i'm i'm happy that the younger
generation is playing photographer
because it's
one of the greatest games that's ever
been made
it was very revolutionary in a lot of
ways
i won't say now because you're halfway
through
yeah don't spoil yeah no spoiler you
know do you have a switch
yes i have a switch light
what's the difference between the switch
light and the switch um the switch you
could actually like
to connect it to the tv and take the
controllers out but the switch light is
like a console like
it's like oh it's like a handheld a ds
but without yeah it's a handheld okay so
you can't
take the things out yeah and you can't
plug it to the tv either
oh interesting okay yeah cool
all right so we anything else i mean it
feels to me like we're kind of done
yeah i i think we talked about
everything i wanted to talk about
yeah are you okay with the amount that
we got into it like
do you feel like you wanna okay felt
okay to me too
um yeah did you have any other questions
you mentioned cyclothymia earlier do you
understand like bipolar 1 bipolar 2 and
cyclothymia
oh yeah i don't think you got through
that yeah yet
so we'll do that very quickly so bipolar
disorder has
two variants and
one is like depression with something
called hypomania and the other one is
depression with
full mania so hypomania is like this
kind of like middle level
of elevated energy so people sleep a
little bit less they tend to be
super productive this is the thing that
all the kids at harvard college
don't want to get rid of because it
actually is like helps them perform
so they can study for 12 hours a day
sleep four hours a night
they feel generally pretty good the
problem is that most
periods of mania and hypomania have this
kind of like
crash afterward which feels like
depression
true mania is when you know generally
speaking i think about like periods of
time without going
really with very little to no sleep very
high energy level
very high positive mood and a mind that
is super super active and like is not
operating with the same set of rules
that
normal minds operate with so you know
people will think that they like
like they'll like really believe that
they've come up with the cure for cancer
or solved the problem for like you know
endless energy and figured out how to
harness a hundred percent of the energy
from the sun
and like these other kinds of like ideas
that seem quite extreme
um and mania especially can be quite
dangerous because sometimes people can
actually become like psychotic
and by psychotic they can start to have
very distorted perceptions of reality
like sometimes they'll start to think
that they're like the incarnation of
jesus or things like that
and so that's bipolar one and bipolar
two both of them have depression and
then one has like
mania and then one has maniolite
and which then has bipolar one is true
mania
uh bipolar two is mania white
there is some confusion in terms of
diagnosis so the interesting thing about
bipolar disorder is that most people
have their first manic episode like
before the age of 23. so reason i ask
you your age
is because you know when i have a 17
year old who i diagnose with depression
in the back of my mind there's a clock
that's ticking
and it's that if they're going to become
manic it'll happen in the next couple of
years
and so i tend to look out for it but i'm
not gonna put people
on bipolar medication until i know
they're bipolar
um you know just a couple and so
cyclothymia is sort of a low level of
both i
memory serves i'm a bit rusty on that
because i don't work with a whole lot of
people with psychothemia
um and the last thing is you know when
it comes to
to medication with bipolar disorder uh
you know i think that it can be very
helpful but i also don't think it's like
a lifelong sentence
so this i disagree with many of my
colleagues so i've had
other people i've had patients who have
bipolar disorder
who have taken off of all medication and
they're doing fine
i would not recommend that for you so i
would trust your psychiatrist but i
think those people
your brain is still developing and like
you said teenagers have messed up sleep
schedules
so in your case sleep is actually like a
risk factor
for your mental illness so if you don't
sleep well you can literally become
manic or depressed so in the cases of
people who don't need medication
usually it's full adults whose brains
have developed
and then also like being very very
careful about
so for example i worked with one person
who was a physician
and they would travel internationally to
present their research
and every time they traveled
internationally and if they dealt with
jet lag
we would put them on medication before
they traveled
they would go go to the conference have
the medication on board
speak at the conference be jet lagged
come back and then taper off of the
medication
right so the real risk factor is like
messed up sleep so i do think that you
can sort of manage it
at some point but like trust your doctor
and i think in your case specifically
especially for students
i'm very hesitant if they need
medication i keep them on it
because you're at a stage of your life
where you can't afford to like go manic
and [ __ ] up your life
and and people can really [ __ ] up their
lives like in in bad ways
um but but you know i do think that it's
possible to do
pretty well with low levels of
medication or even no medication in some
cases it just depends on the person
but it sounds to me like you have a very
good psychiatrist and it sounds like you
trust them and i would really trust them
because the hard thing is that you don't
remember what you're like when you're
manic
yeah whereas the people who see you are
like
you really can't be doing that it seems
less bad to you than
when you sit with a truly manic person
it's like
they can't do anything and what i see in
you oreo is someone who has a
budding or successful music career and
what you need more than anything else is
stability of growth
because if you go awol and disappear for
like six months like i don't know what's
going to happen to your career
but generally speaking you know stable
production is the most important thing
for you right now
so i'd stick with the medicine that's
what your psychiatrist tells you to do
okay
how do you feel about meditation uh
i think it's pretty cool i'd be down to
try it
what are we going to teach you is the
question
i've done like breathing meditation
do you want to do something else
sure
what do you want to change about your
life
in what way do you want to grow um
[Music]
i want to ex expand
from music and like make more things
i guess create more like different
things like i eventually want to make a
game
so i want to learn things that i'm not
comfortable with
like programming okay
do you still feel like you have a lot of
energy in you
um no i feel pretty normal
okay
so i'm going to teach you something i
haven't taught on in a while but i think
it's going to be a good practice for you
it's actually a cleansing practice and i
think it's going to help you manage
hyperactivity and calmness
uh it's also a practice that works
really well for anxiety so
i'm gonna teach you a practice called
bellows breathing
it's another breathing practice
me just double check with myself
yeah so i'm gonna tack on something at
the end okay
so we're gonna we're gonna sort of sit
with this idea of advice
towards the end of our practice okay but
what i want to help you do
is teach you a technique
oh one second
hello
no dude you can't teach her quindalin
that's bad for people
yeah nope okay
nope
someone tried to give me a suggestion as
to what to teach you but i think that
that is dangerous for people who have
bipolar disorder
okay at least not yet
you need to be purified before you do
this
um okay so
so i think this will be good so what i
want you to do is sit up straight
and do you know how to abdominally
breathe
do you know how to do belly breathing
it's like
for singing breathing through your
diaphragm yep very good
so like when you breathe in your stomach
goes out
and when you breathe out your stomach
goes in
does that make sense so let's just try
that so i want you to just do
three belly breaths so breathe your
timer so breathe in
and then out
through your nose
good so for people who are watching when
you breathe in your stomach should
expand so make your belly big
and when you breathe out pull your navel
towards your spine
so suck in your navel and pull it all
the way towards your spine and breathe
out very good
so now what i'm going to teach you oreo
is
is forceful exhalations with passive
inhalations
so what i'm going to do is i'm going to
do like nine breaths
where what i'm going to focus on is like
a sharp exhalation
and as quickly as i can another sharp
exhalation
there's going to be a very small
inhalation in between
but i'll demonstrate okay okay
could you tell what i was doing inhaling
like really quickly exhaling really
quickly oh exhaling
yeah so it's like a you're like pushing
all the air out
yeah so push all the air out fast
good now try to try to do nine breaths
in a row
as large and as forceful as you can do
so breathe in so take one big deep
breath and then go
boom boom boom okay boom boom
okay go ahead let's see
okay good so now so sit up straight
and now we're gonna do 15 okay so we're
going to close our eyes
and we're going to do 15 hard
exhalations
and you'll kind of feel that recoil of
the inhalation afterward and try to push
it out again
okay okay so deep breath in and 15
breaths
okay good so now we're going to do the
next phase we're going to do 15 more
breaths
and after you finish the 15 i want you
to just
notice like how chill you feel
so you're gonna take one really long
super slow breath
and just sit in that space so there's
gonna be the frenzied breathing followed
by like the post
calm okay so after i
exhale then i breathe in again and then
so
15 sharp no no 15 sharp exhalations
and then just stop and do whatever your
breath naturally wants to do
and just chill in the space of mind
that you create through those 15
exhalations
and so we're going to be in kind of
silent meditation afterward for like a
minute
okay okay so eyes closed sit up straight
and begin 15 breaths go
now i want you to feel your heartbeat
eyes closed
or listen to it with headphones you may
be able to hear it
can you feel it or hear it
i feel it okay so i want you to
notice that the feeling has
has two thumps you feel both of the
thumps
okay so now we're going to do the third
phase of the practice so you can open
your eyes
so what i'm going to do is have you do
30 breaths 30 exhalations
followed by a period of silent
meditation and i want you to pay
attention to the feel of your heartbeat
and what i'm going to do after maybe
about 30 seconds of silent meditation is
i want you to keep your eyes closed
and then i'm going to guide you in some
ways and just listen to what i say maybe
it'll make sense maybe it won't
no big deal okay and the total practice
will
last about two or three minutes of
silent meditation
after you do the 30 breaths so the whole
thing will take maybe about
five minutes you good any questions
okay sit up straight
take a deep breath in and begin 30
breaths
and now i want you to think a little bit
about your father
and find within yourself
all of the love all of the affection
all of the caring all of the compassion
and then at the same time
find the anger
the hatred the sense of loss of
innocence and just like the beating of
your heart i want you to feel
both of those things together
there's
that you can have both of those within
you and that's actually how it's
supposed to be
that you can love him and be
disappointed
that he can be a wonderful father and
could have done better
that you're lucky to have him in your
life
and you're unlucky
that you can be grateful for many things
in life
and you can be resentful
as you as you swim between these two
poles of feeling
return to the feeling of your heartbeat
and notice that within your body there
is never just one thing
there's always a balance
the two thumps of your heartbeat
the inhalation and the exhalation
the contractions squeeze your fists
together
and then relax them
that eyes can open and close
and that our most basic sense of self
involves two things
and so it's perfectly okay for you to
feel both of those things with your dad
and that there's no need to feel guilty
for feeling angry
that you deserve to feel both of those
ways and that's okay
one doesn't need to win
and the more that you focus on your
heartbeat
the deeper this principle will sink into
your mind
all you have to do is focus on the
heartbeat and you'll learn this on your
own
and now for nine beats i want you to
feel your heart
when you're done open your eyes
how do you feel relaxed
that's what we want to do so i think
relaxed is an interesting word
but i think that um
yeah practice it if you
are interested i think the rapid
breathing if you're feeling anxious or
overly energetic
it can also calm down your mind so that
breathing technique since it involves a
lot of activity
is going to let you get energy out and
then you're
left with a calm mind naturally
right it's like if you're fidgety and
you run like a bunch of
like if you do a bunch of sprints you're
not going to be fidget anymore
so you need a technique that's going to
let you get the excess energy of your
mind out and leave you
in a calm space and then find something
sensory within you to kind of like
zero in on this principle of like yin
and yank
in breath and out breath heartbeat
and since you're a musician i i decided
to go with the heart
because it's got a rhythm to it it's got
a you know
okay any last thoughts or questions
no okay well thank you very much for
coming on oreo
thank you for having me that was so much
i learned a lot
good i'm glad i'm really happy that
you're
on the road that you're on i think
you're gonna make really cool things
and um i'm really glad that you're
actually in treatment and i would
encourage you to stick with that
okay so good luck to you you too
and take care so you're you're uh can we
have
i guess i can send a link to your
website you you have a youtube channel
yeah i have a youtube channel and what's
the youtube channel
or3o no zeros it's like oh the letter o
youtube.com yeah oh there it is
we've got it okay awesome so guys check
out oreo's music
and good luck to you oreo we're rooting
for you thank you
take care you too bye
bye
okay that was fun